I come no more to make youlaugh:
things now, that bear aweighty
and a serious brow,
Sad, high, and working,full of state and woe,
Such noble scenes as drawthe eye to flow,
We now present.
Those that can pity, heremay,
if they think it well, letfall a tear;
The subject willdeserve it.
Such as give their moneyout of hope
they may believe,
May here find truth too.Those that come to see
Only a show or two, and soagree the play may pass,
if they be still andwilling,
I'll undertake may seeaway
their shilling richly intwo short hours.
Only they that come tohear a merry bawdy play,
A noise of targets,
or to see a fellow
in a long motley coatguarded with yellow,
Will be deceived;
for, gentle hearers, know,
To rank our chosen truthwith such a show
As fool and fight is,
beside forfeiting our ownbrains,
and the opinion that webring,
to make that only true wenow intend,
will leave us never anunderstanding friend.
Therefore, for goodness'sake,
and as you are known thefirst
and happiest hearers ofthe town,
Be sad, as we would makeye:
think ye see the verypersons of our noble story
As they were living;
think you see them great,
And follow'd with thegeneral throng
and sweat of thousandfriends; then in a moment,
see how soon thismightiness meets misery:
And, if you can be merrythen, I'll say
A man may weep upon hiswedding-day.
Good morrow, and well met.
How have ye done sincelast we saw in France?
I thank your grace,
Healthful; and ever sincea fresh admirer
of what I saw there.
An untimely ague stay'd mea prisoner in my chamber
when those suns of glory,those two lights of men,
Met in the vale of Andren.
'Twixt Guynes and Arde:
I was then present, sawthem salute on horseback;
Beheld them, when theylighted,
how they clung in theirembracement,
as they grew together;
Which had they, what fourthroned ones
could have weigh'd such acompounded one?
All the whole time I wasmy chamber's prisoner.
Then you lost the view ofearthly glory:
men might say,
Till this time pomp wassingle,
but now married to oneabove itself.
Each following day becamethe next day's master,
till the last made formerwonders its.
To-day the French,
All clinquant, all ingold, like heathen gods,
Shone down the English;and, to-morrow,
they made Britain India:
every man that stoodshow'd like a mine.
Their dwarfish pages wereas cherubins, all guilt:
The two kings, equal inlustre,
were now best, now worst,
As presence did presentthem; him in eye,
Still him in praise: and,being present both
'Twas said they saw butone;
and no discerner durst waghis tongue in censure.
When these suns-- for sothey phrase 'em--
by their heralds challengedthe noble spirits to arms,
they did perform beyondthought's compass
O, you go far.
As I belong to worship andaffect in honour honesty,
the tract of every thing
would by a good discourserlose some life,
Which action's self wastongue to.
All was royal;
to the disposing of itnought rebell'd.
Order gave each thingview;
the office did distinctlyhis full function.
Who did guide,
I mean, who set the bodyand the limbs
Of this great sporttogether, as you guess?
One, certes, that promisesno element
in such a business.
I pray you, who, my lord?
All this was order'd bythe good discretion
Of the right reverendCardinal of York.
The devil speed him!
no man's pie is freed fromhis ambitious finger.
What had he to do in thesefierce vanities?
I wonder that such a keechcan with his very bulk
Take up the rays o' thebeneficial sun
and keep it from theearth.
Surely, sir,
There's in him stuff thatputs him to these ends;
For, being not propp'd byancestry,
whose grace chalkssuccessors their way,
nor call'd upon for highfeats done to the crown;
neither allied for eminentassistants;
but, spider-like,
Out of his self-drawingweb, he gives us note,
The force of his own meritmakes his way
A gift that heaven givesfor him,
which buys a place next tothe king.
I cannot tell what heavenhath given him,
--let some graver eyepierce into that;
but I can see his pride peepthrough each part of him:
whence has he that, if notfrom hell?
the devil is a niggard,
Or has given all before,
and he begins a new hellin himself.
Why the devil,
Upon this French goingout, took he upon him,
Without the privity o' theking,
to appoint who shouldattend on him?
He makes up the file ofall the gentry;
for the most part such towhom
as great a charge aslittle honour
He meant to lay upon:
I do know Kinsmen of mine,three at the least,
that have by this sosickened their estates,
that never they shallabound as formerly.
O, many have broke theirbacks
with laying manors on 'em
For this great journey.
Grievingly I think, the peacebetween the French and us
not values the cost thatdid conclude it.
Every man, after the hideousstorm that follow'd,
was a thing inspired; and,not consulting,
broke into a generalprophecy;
That this tempest,
Dashing the garment ofthis peace,
aboded the sudden breachon't.
Which is budded out;
For France hath flaw'd theleague,
and hath attach'd ourmerchants' goods at Bourdeaux.
Is it therefore theambassador is silenced?
Marry, is't.
A proper title of apeace;
and purchased at asuperfluous rate!
Why, all this business ourreverend cardinal carried.
Like it your grace,
The state takes notice ofthe private difference
Betwixt you and thecardinal.
I advise you-- And take itfrom a heart
that wishes towards youhonour and plenteous safety
--that you read thecardinal's malice
and his potency together;to consider further
that what his highhatred would effect
wants not a minister inhis power.
You know his nature, thathe's revengeful,
and I know his sword hatha sharp edge:
it's long and, 't may besaid, it reaches far,
and where 'twill not extend,thither he darts it.
Bosom up my counsel,you'll find it wholesome.
Lo, where comes that rockthat I advise your shunning.
The Duke of Buckingham'ssurveyor, ha?
Where's his examination?
Here, so please you.
Is he in person ready?
Ay, please your grace.
Well, we shall then knowmore;
and Buckingham shalllessen this big look.
This butcher's cur isvenom-mouth'd,
and I have not the powerto muzzle him;
therefore best not wakehim in his slumber.
A beggar's book outworthsa noble's blood.
What, are you chafed?
Ask God for temperance;
that's the appliance onlywhich your disease requires.
I read in's looks matteragainst me;
and his eye reviled me, ashis abject object:
at this instant he boresme with some trick:
he's gone to the king; I'llfollow and outstare him.
Stay, my lord,
And let your reason withyour choler question
What 'tis you go about:
to climb steep hillsrequires slow pace at first:
anger is like a full-hothorse,
who being allow'd his way,
Self-mettle tires him.
Not a man in England canadvise me like you:
be to yourself as youwould to your friend.
I'll to the king; and froma mouth of honour
quite cry down this Ipswichfellow's insolence;
or proclaim there'sdifference in no persons.
Be advised;
Heat not a furnace foryour foe
so hot that it do singeyourself:
we may outrun, by violentswiftness,
that which we run at,
And lose by over-running.
Be advised: I say again,
there is no English soulmore stronger
to direct you thanyourself,
If with the sap of reasonyou would quench,
Or but allay, the fire ofpassion.
Sir, I am thankful to you;
and I'll go along by yourprescription:
but this top-proud fellow,
whom from the flow of gallI name not
but from sincere motions,by intelligence,
And proofs as clear asfounts in July
when we see each grain ofgravel,
I do know to be corruptand treasonous.
Say not 'treasonous.'
To the king I'll say't;
and make my vouch asstrong as shore of rock.
Attend. This holy fox, orwolf, or both,
--for he is equal ravenousas he is subtle,
and as prone to mischiefas able to perform't;
his mind and placeinfecting one another,
yea, reciprocally--
Only to show his pomp
as well in France as hereat home,
suggests the king ourmaster
to this last costlytreaty,
the interview, thatswallow'd so much treasure,
and like a glass did breaki' the rinsing.
Faith, and so it did.
Pray, give me favour, sir.
This cunning cardinal
The articles o' thecombination drew
as himself pleased;
and they were ratified ashe cried 'Thus let be':
to as much end as give acrutch to the dead:
Now this follows,-- which,as I take it,
is a kind of puppy to theold dam, treason,
--Charles the emperor,
under pretence to see thequeen his aunt--
For 'twas indeed hiscolour,
but he came to whisperWolsey,
--here makes visitation:
His fears were,
that the interview betwixtEngland and France might,
through their amity, breedhim some prejudice;
for from this league peep'dharms that menaced him:
he privily deals with ourcardinal; and, as I trow,--
Which I do well;
for I am sure the emperorpaid ere he promised;
whereby his suit wasgranted ere it was ask'd;
but when the way was made,and paved with gold,
the emperor thus desired,
that he would please toalter the king's course,
And break the foresaidpeace.
Let the king know,
As soon he shall by me,
that thus the cardinal doesbuy and sell his honour
as he pleases, and for hisown advantage.
I am sorry to hear this ofhim;
and could wish he weresomething mistaken in't.
No, not a syllable:
I do pronounce him in thatvery shape
he shall appear in proof.
Your office, sergeant;execute it.
Sir, my lord the Duke ofBuckingham,
and Earl of Hereford,Stafford, and Northampton,
I arrest thee of hightreason,
in the name of our mostsovereign king.
Lo, you, my lord,
The net has fall'n uponme!
I shall perish underdevice and practise.
I am sorry to see youta'en from liberty,
to look on the businesspresent:
'tis his highness'pleasure
You shall to the Tower.
It will help me nothing toplead mine innocence;
for that dye is on me
which makes my whitestpart black.
The will of heaven be donein this and all things!
I obey.
O my LordAbergavenny, fare you well!
Nay, he must bear youcompany.
The king is pleased youshall to the Tower,
till you know how hedetermines further.
As the duke said, the willof heaven be done,
and the king's pleasure byme obey'd!
Here is a warrant from theking
to attach Lord Montacute;
and the bodies of theduke's confessor,
John de la Car,
One Gilbert Peck, hischancellor--
So, so; These are thelimbs o' the plot:
no more, I hope.
A monk o' the Chartreux.
O, Nicholas Hopkins?
He.
My surveyor is false;
the o'er-great cardinalhath show'd him gold;
my life is spann'dalready:
I am the shadow of poorBuckingham,
Whose figure even thisinstant cloud puts on,
by darkening my clear sun.
My lord, farewell.
My life itself, and thebest heart of it,
Thanks you for this greatcare:
I stood i' the level of afull-charged confederacy,
and give thanks to youthat choked it.
Let be call'd before us thatgentleman of Buckingham's;
in person I'll hear himhis confessions justify;
And point by point thetreasons
of his master he shallagain relate.
'Room for the Queen!'
Nay, we must longer kneel:I am a suitor.
Arise, and take place byus:
half your suit never nameto us;
you have half our power:the other moiety,
ere you ask, is given;
Repeat your will andtake it.
Thank your majesty.
That you would loveyourself,
and in that love notunconsider'd
leave your honour,
nor the dignity of youroffice,
is the point of mypetition.
Lady mine, proceed.
I am solicited, not by afew,
And those of truecondition,
that your subjects are ingreat grievance:
there have been commissionssent down among 'em,
which hath flaw'd the heartof all their loyalties:
wherein, although, my goodlord cardinal,
they vent reproaches mostbitterly on you,
as putter on of theseexactions,
yet the king our master
-- whose honour heavenshield from soil!
--even he escapes notlanguage unmannerly,
yea, such which breaks thesides of loyalty,
and almost appears in loudrebellion.
Not almost appears,
It doth appear; for, uponthese taxations,
The clothiers all,
not able to maintain themany to them longing,
have put off thespinsters,
carders, fullers, weavers,who,
Unfit for other life,
compell'd by hunger andlack of other means,
in desperate manner daringthe event to the teeth,
are all in uproar, anddanger serves among then!
Taxation! Wherein? andwhat taxation?
My lord cardinal,
You that are blamed for italike with us,
know you of this taxation?
Please you, sir,
I know but of a singlepart,
in aught pertains to thestate;
and front but in that file
where others tell stepswith me.
No, my lord, You know nomore than others;
but you frame things thatare known alike;
which are not wholesome
to those which would notknow them,
and yet must perforce betheir acquaintance.
These exactions, whereof mysovereign would have note,
they are most pestilent tothe bearing;
and, to bear 'em, the backis sacrifice to the load.
They say they are devisedby you;
or else you suffer toohard an exclamation.
Still exaction! The natureof it?
in what kind, let's know,Is this exaction?
I am much too venturous intempting of your patience;
but am bolden'd under yourpromised pardon.
The subjects' grief comesthrough commissions,
which compel from each thesixth part of his substance,
to be levied withoutdelay;
and the pretence for thisis named,
your wars in France:
this makes bold mouths:
tongues spit their dutiesout,
and cold hearts freezeallegiance in them;
their curses now livewhere their prayers did:
and it's come to pass,
this tractable obedienceis a slave
to each incensed will.
I would your highness
would give it quickconsideration,
for there is no primerbusiness.
By my life, this isagainst our pleasure.
And for me, I have nofurther gone in this
than by a single voice;
and that not pass'd me
but by learned approbationof the judges.
If I am Traduced byignorant tongues,
which neither know myfaculties nor person,
yet will be the chroniclesof my doing,
let me say 'tis but thefate of place,
and the rough brake thatvirtue must go through.
We must not stint ournecessary actions,
in the fear to copemalicious censurers;
which ever, as ravenousfishes,
do a vessel follow that isnew-trimm'd,
but benefit no furtherthan vainly longing.
What we oft do best, bysick interpreters,
once weak ones, is Notours,
or not allow'd;
what worst, as oft,hitting a grosser quality,
is cried up for our bestact.
If we shall stand still,
In fear our motion will bemock'd or carp'd at,
We should take root herewhere we sit,
or sit state-statues only.
Things done well, and witha care,
exempt themselves fromfear;
Things done withoutexample,
in their issue are to befear'd.
Have you a precedent ofthis commission?
I believe, not any.
We must not rend oursubjects from our laws,
And stick them in ourwill.
Sixth part of each? Atrembling contribution!
Why, we take from everytree lop, bark,
and part o' the timber;
And, though we leave itwith a root, thus hack'd,
The air will drink thesap.
To every county where thisis question'd
send our letters, withfree pardon
to each man that hasdenied the force
of this commission:
pray, look to't; I put itto your care.
A word with you.
Let there be letters writto every shire,
Of the king's grace andpardon.
The grieved commons hardlyconceive of me;
let it be noised thatthrough our intercession
this revokement and pardoncomes:
I shall anon advise youfurther in the proceeding.
I am sorry that the Dukeof Buckingham
is run in yourdispleasure.
It grieves many:
The gentleman is learn'd,and a most rare speaker;
To nature none more bound;
his training such, that hemay furnish
and instruct greatteachers,
And never seek for aid outof himself.
Yet see, when these sonoble benefits
shall prove not welldisposed,
the mind growing oncecorrupt,
They turn to viciousforms,
ten times more ugly thanever they were fair.
This man so complete,
who was enroll'd 'mongstwonders,
and when we, almost withravish'd listening,
could not find his hour ofspeech a minute;
he, my lady, hath intomonstrous habits
put the graces that oncewere his,
and is become as black asif besmear'd in hell.
Sit by us; you shallhear--
This was his gentleman intrust--
of him things to strikehonour sad.
Bid him recount thefore-recited practises;
whereof we cannot feel toolittle, hear too much.
Stand forth, and with boldspirit relate
what you, most like acareful subject,
have collected out of theDuke of Buckingham.
Speak freely.
First, it was usual withhim,
every day it would infecthis speech,
that if the king shouldwithout issue die,
he'll carry it so to makethe sceptre his:
these very words I'veheard him utter
to his son-in-law,Lord Abergavenny;
to whom by oath he menacedrevenge upon the cardinal.
Please your highness,
note this dangerousconception in this point.
Not friended by by hiswish,
to your high person hiswill is most malignant;
and it stretches beyondyou, to your friends.
My learn'd lord cardinal,deliver all with charity.
Speak on:
How grounded he his titleto the crown,
upon our fail?
to this point hast thouheard him
at any time speak aught?
He was brought to this
by a vain prophecy ofNicholas Henton.
What was that Henton?
Sir, a Chartreux friar,His confessor,
who fed him every minutewith words of sovereignty.
How know'st thou this?
Not long before yourhighness sped to France,
The duke being at theRose,
within the parish SaintLawrence Poultney,
did of me demand what wasthe speech
among the Londoners concerningthe French journey:
I replied, men fear'd theFrench
would prove perfidious tothe king's danger.
Presently the duke said,'twas the fear, indeed;
and that he doubted'twould prove
the verity of certainwords
Spoke by a holy monk;'that oft,' says he,
'Hath sent to me, wishingme to permit
John de la Car, mychaplain,
a choice hour to hear fromhim a matter of some moment:
Whom after under theconfession's seal
He solemnly had sworn,
that what he spoke my chaplainto no creature living,
but to me, should utter,
with demure confidencethis pausingly ensued:
neither the king nor'sheirs,
Tell you the duke, shallprosper:
bid him strive to gain thelove o' the commonalty:
the duke shall governEngland.'
If I know you well,
You were the duke'ssurveyor,
and lost your office on thecomplaint o' the tenants:
take good heed you
charge not in your spleena noble person
And spoil your noblersoul:
I say, take heed; Yes,heartily beseech you.
Let him on.
Go forward.
On my soul, I'll speak buttruth.
I told my lord the duke,
by the devil's illusionsthe monk might be deceived;
and that 'twas dangerousfor him
to ruminate on this sofar,
until it forged him somedesign,
which, being believed,
It was much like to do: heanswer'd, 'Tush,
It can do me no damage;'
adding further,
That, had the king in hislast sickness fail'd,
The cardinal's and SirThomas Lovell's heads
should have gone off.
Ha! what, so rank? Ah ha!
There's mischief in thisman: canst thou say further?
I can, my liege.
Proceed.
Being at Greenwich,
after your highness hadreproved the duke
about Sir WilliamBlomer,--
I remember of such a time:being my sworn servant,
The duke retain'd him his.But on; what hence?
'If,' quoth he, 'I forthis had been committed,
As, to the Tower, Ithought,
I would have play'd thepart my father meant to act
upon the usurper Richard;
who, being at Salisbury,
made suit to come in'spresence;
which if granted, as hemade semblance of his duty,
would have put his knifeto him.'
A giant traitor!
Now, madam, may hishighness live in freedom,
and this man out ofprison?
God mend all!
There's something more wouldout of thee; what say'st?
After 'the duke hisfather,' with 'the knife,'
He stretch'd him, and, withone hand on his dagger,
Another spread on'sbreast,
mounting his eyes he diddischarge a horrible oath;
whose tenor was,--were heevil used,
he would outgo his father
by as much as aperformance
Does an irresolutepurpose.
There's his period,
To sheathe his knife inus.
He is attach'd;
Call him to present trial:
if he may find mercy inthe law, 'tis his:
if none, let himnot seek 't of us:
by day and night,
He's traitor to the height.
Is't possible the spellsof France
should juggle men intosuch strange mysteries?
New customs, though theybe never so ridiculous,
Nay, let 'em be unmanly,yet are follow'd.
Death! my lord, theirclothes are after
such a pagan cut too,
That, sure, they've wornout Christendom.
How now! What news, SirThomas Lovell?
Faith, my lord, I hear ofnone,
but the new proclamation that'sclapp'd
upon the court-gate.
What is't for?
The reformation of ourtravell'd gallants,
That fill the court withquarrels, talk, and tailors.
I'm glad 'tis there:
now I would pray ourmonsieurs
to think an Englishcourtier may be wise,
And never see the Louvre.
They must either, for sorun the conditions,
leave those remnants offool and feather
that they got in France,
Or pack to their oldplayfellows:
there, I take it, theymay, 'cum privilegio,'
wear away the lag end of theirlewdness
and be laugh'd at.
'Tis time to give 'emphysic,
their diseases are grownso catching.
What a loss our ladies willhave of these trim vanities!
Ay, marry, There will bewoe indeed, lords:
the sly whoresons have gota speeding trick
to lay down ladies;
A French song and a fiddlehas no fellow.
The devil fiddle 'em! I amglad they are going,
For, sure, there's noconverting of 'em:
now an honest countrylord, as I am,
beaten a long time out ofplay,
may bring his plainsong andhave an hour of hearing;
and, by'r lady, heldcurrent music too.
Well said, Lord Sands;
Your colt's tooth is notcast yet.
No, my lord; Nor shallnot, while I have a stump.
Sir Thomas, whither wereyou a-going?
To the cardinal's: Yourlordship is a guest too.
O, 'tis true: This nighthe makes a supper,
and a great one, to manylords and ladies;
there will be the beautyof this kingdom,
I'll assure you.
That churchman bears abounteous mind indeed,
A hand as fruitful as theland that feeds us;
his dews fall every where.
No doubt he's noble;
He had a black mouth thatsaid other of him.
He may, my lord; haswherewithal:
in him sparing would show aworse sin than ill doctrine:
Men of his way should bemost liberal;
They are set here forexamples.
True, they are so: But fewnow give so great ones.
My barge stays; Yourlordship shall along.
Come, good Sir Thomas, Weshall be late else;
which I would not be, forI was sent for,
with Sir Henry Guildford thisnight to be comptrollers.
I am your lordship's.
Ladies, a general welcome fromhis grace salutes ye all;
this night he dedicates tofair content and you:
none here, he hopes,
In all this noble bevy,
has brought with her one careabroad;
he would have all as merryas, first,
good company, good wine,good welcome,
can make good people.
O, my lord, you're tardy:
The very thought of thisfair company
clapp'd wings to me.
You are young, Sir HarryGuildford.
Sir Thomas Lovell,
had the cardinal but halfmy lay thoughts in him,
some of these should finda running banquet
ere they rested,
I think would betterplease 'em:
by my life, they are asweet society of fair ones.
O, that your lordship werebut now confessor
to one or two of these!
I would I were they shouldfind easy penance.
Faith, how easy?
As easy as a down-bedwould afford it.
Sweet ladies, will itplease you sit?
Sir Harry, Place you thatside;
I'll take the charge ofthis:
His grace is entering.Nay, you must not freeze;
Two women placed togethermakes cold weather:
My Lord Sands, you are onewill keep 'em waking;
Pray, sit between theseladies.
By my faith, I thank yourlordship.
By your leave, sweetladies:
If I chance to talk alittle wild, forgive me;
I had it from my father.
Was he mad, sir?
O, very mad, exceedingmad, in love too:
But he would bite none;just as I do now,
He would kiss you twentywith a breath.
You're welcome, my fairguests:
that noble lady, orgentleman,
that is not freely merry,is not my friend: this,
to confirm my welcome; andto you all, good health.
Your grace is noble:
Let me have such a bowlmay hold my thanks,
And save me so muchtalking.
My Lord Sands,
I am beholding to you:cheer your neighbours.
Ladies, you are not merry:
gentlemen, whose fault isthis?
The red wine first mustrise
in their fair cheeks, mylord;
then we shall have 'emtalk us to silence.
You are a merry gamester,my Lord Sands.
Yes, if I make my play.
Here's to your ladyship:and pledge it, madam,
For 'tis to such athing,--
You cannot show me.
I told your grace theywould talk anon.
(boom)
What's that?
Look out there, some ofye.
What warlike voice, and towhat end is this?
Nay, ladies, fear not;
by all the laws of waryou're privileged.
How now! what is't?
A noble troop ofstrangers;
For so they seem:
they've left their bargeand landed;
And hither make,
as great ambassadors fromforeign princes.
Good lord chamberlain, Go,give 'em welcome;
you can speak the Frenchtongue;
And, pray, receive 'emnobly,
and conduct 'em into ourpresence,
where this heaven ofbeauty
shall shine at full uponthem.
Some attend him.
You have now a brokenbanquet; but we'll mend it.
A good digestion to youall:
and once more I shower
a welcome on ye; welcomeall.
A noble company! what aretheir pleasures?
Because they speak noEnglish,
thus they pray'd to tellyour grace,
that, having heard by fame
of this so noble and sofair assembly
This night to meet here,
they could do no less
out of the great respectthey bear to beauty,
But leave their flocks;and,
under your fair conduct,
Crave leave to view theseladies
and entreat an hour ofrevels with 'em.
Say, lord chamberlain,
they have done my poorhouse grace;
for which I pay 'em athousand thanks,
and pray 'em take theirpleasures.
The fairest hand I evertouch'd! O beauty,
till now I never knewthee!
My lord!
Your grace?
Pray, tell 'em thus muchfrom me:
There should be one amongst'em, by his person,
More worthy this placethan myself; to whom,
If I but knew him, with mylove and duty
I would surrender it.
I will, my lord.
What say they?
Such a one, they allconfess,
There is indeed;
which they would have yourgrace find out,
and he will take it.
Let me see, then.
By all your good leaves,gentlemen;
here I'll make my royalchoice.
Ye have found him,cardinal:
You hold a fair assembly;you do well, lord:
You are a churchman, or,I'll tell you, cardinal,
I should judge nowunhappily.
I am glad your grace isgrown so pleasant.
My lord chamberlain,Prithee, come hither:
what fair lady's that?
An't please your grace, SirThomas Bullen's daughter,
the Viscount Rochford,
one of her highness'women.
By heaven, she is a daintyone.
Sweetheart, I wereunmannerly, to take you out,
And not to kiss you.
A health, gentlemen! Letit go round.
Sir Thomas Lovell, is thebanquet ready
I' the privy chamber?
Yes, my lord.
Your grace, I fear, withdancing is a little heated.
I fear, too much.
There's fresher air, mylord, in the next chamber.
Lead in your ladies, everyone:
sweet partner, I must notyet forsake you:
let's be merry: Good mylord cardinal,
I have half a dozenhealths
To drink to these fairladies,
and a measure to lead 'emonce again;
and then let's dream who'sbest in favour.
Let the music knock it.
(music plays)